Data representation using brython (#5919)
section-engineering-education/engineering-education: content/articles/data-representation-using-brython/index.md

The cooperation between JavaScript and the web has been a standard. A few programming languages are utilized for web development, with a notable mention being Python. 
Python's micro-frameworks, for example, `flask, Hug, Cherrypy,` have permitted Python to cooperate with the web.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The cooperation between JavaScript and the web has been a standard. A few programming languages are utilized for web development, with a notable mention being Python. 
Python's micro-frameworks, for example, `flask, Hug, Cherrypy,` have permitted Python to cooperate with the web.
```

[105, 129],[140, 85],[133, 98],[157, 165],[152, 159],[179, 154],[175, 165],[119, 187],[70, 156],[87, 184],[73, 181],
[165, 131],[146, 114],[177, 176],[100, 106],[140, 101],[168, 109],[95, 72],[137, 124],[160, 182],[121, 142],[154, 128],
[156, 183],[99, 149],[132, 78],[77, 110],[108, 83],[110, 70],[166, 125],[150, 115],[83, 88],[81, 176],[155, 112],[119, 70],
[102, 158],[108, 147],[169, 153],[135, 121],[143, 93],[134, 128],[167, 96],[140, 138],[88, 146],[76, 157],[176, 91],[170, 108],
[79, 158],[148, 75],[145, 138],[82, 186],[102, 118],[96, 146],[162, 119],[76, 138],[129, 145],[116, 103],[89, 137],[169, 73],[118, 144],
[96, 155],[133, 164],[168, 138],[154, 110],[173, 80],[125, 164],[85, 94],[142, 182],[91, 183],[81, 135],[116, 180],[149, 119],[168, 110],
[103, 110],[113, 181],[95, 184],[134, 80],[104, 71],[78, 125],[103, 127],[139, 81],[115, 181],[127, 111],[91, 146],[77, 161],[80, 143],
[135, 86],[156, 155],[171, 167],[101, 184],[121, 75],[79, 157],[90, 180],[117, 167],[147, 78],[145, 157],[114, 141],[141, 134],[122, 147],
[156, 177],[177, 83],[180, 145],[122, 106],[100, 147],[155, 72],[85, 81],[90, 122],[107, 161],[73, 168],[100, 104],[117, 82],[153, 71],[88, 74],

> [171, 117],[83, 185],[125, 136]]

Author: To do that, it will involve the use of pandas. At the moment pandas library is not working with brython, thus, not making this possible. i can reduce the data so it won't be that cumbersome

}]
})
```

> The chart above shows how weight affects height using a sample of 600 individuals of different races. Here is the result of the analysis:

Author: it's not a separate dataset. if you take a look at the data above, you'd notice is a point system. thus, x is the weight and y is the height.

![scatterplot](engineering-education/data-representation-with-react-and-ant-design/scatterplot.png)

> - #### Explaining the code
>     - The `chart` object:
>         - `type` specifies the chart type.
>         - `zoomType` specifies the zoom dimension when we move the mouse.
>         - `tooltip` is a small modal that pops up when we hover our mouse on the datasets in the plot. It displays any detail we wish to add to it.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The code above plots the scatterplot using the `chart` object.  The `chart` object has the following methods that specify the behavior of our scatter plot.

**`type`**
This method is used to specify the chart type.

**`zoomType`**
 This method specifies the zoom dimension when we move the mouse.
 
**`tooltip`** 
This is a small modal that pops up when we hover our mouse on the datasets in the plot.  It displays all details added to the scatter plot.

```

> ### Conclusion

Reviewer: Please add more content in this section. Highlight some of the steps you followed and what a reader should be able to learn by the end of this tutorial.

The process of data representation is a delightful journey. Like all journeys, it must come to an end. 

> The implementation of the above steps should assist you in achieving the tutorial's objective. 

Reviewer: Please add more content in this section. Highlight some of the steps you followed and what a reader should be able to learn by the end of this tutorial

> [Here](https://github.com/ayodele96/brython) is the link to the repository containing the code snippets.

Reviewer: After conclusion, add the References sections. Add useful links that should guide the reader.

The cooperation between JavaScript and the web has been a standard. There are different programming languages used for web development, with a notable mention being Python.  Python has micro-frameworks such as `Flask`, `Hug`, and `Cherrypy` which have enabled Python to cooperate with the web.

> Instead of using Python micro-frameworks to run the client-side web applications, we have `Brython`.  `Brython` stands for Browser Python.  `Brython` is a client-side scripting language with Python3 execution that is adjusted to the HTML5 environment. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Instead of using Python micro-frameworks to run the client-side web applications, we have `Brython`. `Brython` stands for Browser Python. `Brython` is a client-side scripting language with Python3 execution that is adjusted to the HTML5 environment. 
```

Brython interfaces smoothly with JavaScript and its libraries to build high-level web projects. It incorporates libraries such as Vue.js, Bokeh, Highchart, and Phaser.

In this tutorial, we will represent data utilizing piecharts and scatterplots in Brython. This is possible because of the cooperation among Brython and Highchart.js libraries. Let's get started!

> ### Table of Contents

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Table of contents
```

- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Aim of this tutorial](#aim-of-this-tutorial)
- [Getting started](#getting-started)
- [Installing Brython with the Node Package Manager](#installing-brython-with-the-node-package-manager)
- [Installing Brython using Content Delivery Network](#installing-brython-using-content-delivery-network)
- [Create a piechart using Brython.](#create-a-piechart-using-brython)
- [Chart.py file](#chartpy-file)
- [Creating a scatterplot using Brython.](#creating-a-scatterplot-using-brython)
- [Conclusion](#conclusion)
- [Further Reading](#further-reading)

### Prerequisites

To follow along easily, the reader should:

> - Install the [Python](https://www.python.org/downloads/) executable.
> -  Have [Python programming](/engineering-education/python-projects-for-beginners/) skills.
> -  Have [Javascript programming](https://www.w3schools.com/js/) skills.
> -  Have [Visual Studio Code.](https://code.visualstudio.com/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Install the [Python](https://www.python.org/downloads/) executable.
- Have [Python programming](/engineering-education/python-projects-for-beginners/) skills.
- Have [Javascript programming](https://www.w3schools.com/js/) skills.
- Have [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) installed.
```

### Aim of this tutorial
In this tutorial, we aim to guide the readers on how to:

- Installing Brython in our local environment. We can achieve this using a host of methods:

    1. PyPI. To use this method make sure you have installed Python3.
    2. Content Delivery Network (CDN).
    3. Node Package Manager (npm).

>     4. GitHub.

Reviewer 2: Indent them leftwards.

```

#### Installing Brython using Content Delivery Network
Brython can be delivered directly from the web using a CDN link. Content Delivery Networks in JavaScript deliver hosted stylesheets and JavaScript files using the `src` attribute in the script tag. The JavaScript file for Brython and Brython `stdlib` are as below:

```javascript
<script src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/brython/3.10.4/brython.js" 
integrity="sha512-Dr8IR/2fk/pBmngFLduWN5Ys/t7lcPxGgLCulHdTdgDrDRnGb+ANMxGXq+DKVN87jom+N3BrzzI476Pf98RReA==" crossorigin="anonymous" referrerpolicy="no-referrer"></script>

<script src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/brython/3.10.4/brython_stdlib.js" integrity="sha512-kMRN6F4Yq4sNLbPG2lH3EO9n776JHHZub+UWogDxVjh9uTnoVo3wtN/rnQD4C4/AZtqI2zQdvdouGAAxOGwNeA==" crossorigin="anonymous" referrerpolicy="no-referrer"></script>
```

You can use any of the methods above to create your Brython project. After creating the Brython project, we can now create a piechart.

#### Create a piechart using Brython.
In this section, we will start by creating a piechart using Brython. To create the piechart, we will follow the following steps:

> 1. Initializing the HTML5 boilerplate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
##### Initializing the HTML5 boilerplate.
```

Reviewer 2: Do this change for the below sub-headings.

            'cursor': 'pointer',
            'dataLabels': {
                'enabled': True,
                'format': '<b>{point.name}</b>: {point.percentage:.1f} %',
                'style': {
                    'color': 'black'
                }
            }
        }
    },
    'series': [{
        'type': 'pie',
        'data': [
            ['Indigenious Beliefs',   10.7],
            ['Other Christian',       35.3],
            {
                'name': 'Roman Catholicism',
                'y': 10.0,
                'sliced': True,
                'selected': True
            },
            ['Islam',    43.5],
            ['Others',     0.5]
        ]
    }]
})
```

The code above is used to plot the pie chart using the following methods:
**`plotBackgroundColor`** 
It is used to plot the background color for the chart area.

**`plotBorderWidth`** 
This is used to plot the width of the chart area in pixels.

**`plotShadow`**  
This method takes in boolean values. It adds a drop shadow to the area. 

**`renderTo` **
This method is similar to `document.getElementBy` in javascript. It will take the `id` of the `div` tag in our HTML code.

**`tooltip`**

> This object contains the details in the small box when we hover on our chart.

Reviewer 2: You can make these as bulleted points.

                    }
                }
            },
            'states': {
                'hover': {
                    'marker': {
                        'enabled': False
                    }
                }
            },
            'tooltip': {
                'headerFormat': '<b>{series.name}</b><br>',
                'pointFormat': '{point.x} cm, {point.y} kg'
            }
        }
    },
    'series': [{
        'name': 'African',
        'color': 'red',
'data': [[173, 104],[132, 132],[137, 72],[73, 153],[119, 109],[90, 136],[122, 81],[72, 189],[159, 135],
[121, 131],[77, 99],[129, 119],[82, 181],[88, 188],[129, 91],[122, 140],[140, 161],[175, 132]]

}, {'name': 'Asian',
'color': 'yellow',
'data':[[135, 111],[127, 179],[79, 162],[131, 109],[108, 143],[109, 92],[108, 158],[110, 102],[79, 149],
[92, 141],[86, 190],[71, 99],[129, 108],[123, 116],[89, 86],[132, 181],[137, 190],[132, 143]]

}, {
'name': 'Hispanic',
'color': 'green',
'data': [[156, 177],[177, 83],[180, 145],[122, 106],[100, 147],[155, 72],[85, 81],[90, 122],[107, 161],[73, 168],[100, 104],[117, 82],[153, 71],[88, 74],
[171, 117],[83, 185],[125, 136]]
}]

> })

Reviewer 2: Format them neatly

```
The code above shows the relation between weight and height using a sample of 53 individuals of different races.

When we execute this code, the scatterplot is as shown below:

![scatterplot](engineering-education/data-representation-with-react-and-ant-design/scatterplot.png)

The code above plots the scatterplot using the `chart` object.  The `chart` object has the following methods that specify the behavior of our scatter plot.

**`type`**
This method is used to specify the chart type.

**`zoomType`**
 This method specifies the zoom dimension when we move the mouse.
 
**`tooltip`** 

> This is a small modal that pops up when we hover our mouse on the datasets in the plot.  It displays all details added to the scatter plot.

Reviewer 2: Bulleted points.

The cooperation between JavaScript and the web has been a standard. There are different programming languages used for web development, with a notable mention being Python.  Python has micro-frameworks such as `Flask`, `Hug`, and `Cherrypy` which have enabled Python to cooperate with the web.

Instead of using Python micro-frameworks to run the client-side web applications, we have `Brython`.  `Brython` stands for Browser Python.  `Brython` is a client-side scripting language with Python3 execution that is adjusted to the HTML5 environment. 

Brython interfaces smoothly with JavaScript and its libraries to build high-level web projects. It incorporates libraries such as Vue.js, Bokeh, Highchart, and Phaser.

In this tutorial, we will represent data utilizing piecharts and scatterplots in Brython. This is possible because of the cooperation among Brython and Highchart.js libraries. Let's get started!

> ### Table of contents
> - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
> - [Aim of this tutorial](#aim-of-this-tutorial)
> - [Getting started](#getting-started)
>   - [Installing Brython with the Node Package Manager](#installing-brython-with-the-node-package-manager)
>   - [Installing Brython using Content Delivery Network](#installing-brython-using-content-delivery-network)
>   - [Create a piechart using Brython.](#create-a-piechart-using-brython)
> - [Chart.py file](#chartpy-file)
>   - [Creating a scatterplot using Brython.](#creating-a-scatterplot-using-brython)
> - [Conclusion](#conclusion)
> - [Reference](#reference)
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Table of Contents
- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Aim of this tutorial](#aim-of-this-tutorial)
- [Getting started](#getting-started)
- [Installing Brython with the Node Package Manager](#installing-brython-with-the-node-package-manager)
- [Installing Brython using Content Delivery Network](#installing-brython-using-content-delivery-network)
- [Create a piechart using Brython.](#create-a-piechart-using-brython)
- [Chart.py file](#chartpy-file)
- [Creating a scatterplot using Brython.](#creating-a-scatterplot-using-brython)
- [Conclusion](#conclusion)
- [Further Reading](#further-reading)

```

    1. PyPI. To use this method make sure you have installed Python3.
    2. Content Delivery Network (CDN).
    3. Node Package Manager (npm).
    4. GitHub.
     
> NOTE: We will focus on the second and third methods in creating a piechart and scatter plot.

### Getting started
To get started, we will Install Brython with the Node Package Manager.

#### Installing Brython with the Node Package Manager
Node.js is a JavaScript runtime used to build scalable network applications. It executes JavaScript code outside a web browser. 
To install Brython using `npm`, download and install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/). After installation, run this command in your terminal:

```bash
npm install brython
```

Run this command while in your working directory. This will create a folder called node_modules. This folder contains the Brython package.

To add the Brython and Brython stdlib package to your web project, use the script tag below:

```html
<script type="text/javascript" src="./node_modules/brython/brython.js"></script>
<script src="./node_modules/brython/brython_stdlib.js"></script>
```

#### Installing Brython using Content Delivery Network

> Brython can be delivered directly from the web using a CDN link. Content Delivery Networks in JavaScript deliver hosted stylesheets and JavaScript files using the `src` attribute in the script tag. The JavaScript file for Brython and Brython stdlib are as below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Brython can be delivered directly from the web using a CDN link. Content Delivery Networks in JavaScript deliver hosted stylesheets and JavaScript files using the `src` attribute in the script tag. The JavaScript file for Brython and Brython `stdlib` are as below:
```

'color': 'yellow',
'data':[[135, 111],[127, 179],[79, 162],[131, 109],[108, 143],[109, 92],[108, 158],[110, 102],[79, 149],
[92, 141],[86, 190],[71, 99],[129, 108],[123, 116],[89, 86],[132, 181],[137, 190],[132, 143]]

}, {
'name': 'Hispanic',
'color': 'green',
'data': [[156, 177],[177, 83],[180, 145],[122, 106],[100, 147],[155, 72],[85, 81],[90, 122],[107, 161],[73, 168],[100, 104],[117, 82],[153, 71],[88, 74],
[171, 117],[83, 185],[125, 136]]
}]
})
```
The code above shows the relation between weight and height using a sample of 53 individuals of different races.

When we execute this code, the scatterplot is as shown below:

![scatterplot](engineering-education/data-representation-with-react-and-ant-design/scatterplot.png)

The code above plots the scatterplot using the `chart` object.  The `chart` object has the following methods that specify the behavior of our scatter plot.

**`type`**
This method is used to specify the chart type.

**`zoomType`**
 This method specifies the zoom dimension when we move the mouse.
 
**`tooltip`** 
This is a small modal that pops up when we hover our mouse on the datasets in the plot.  It displays all details added to the scatter plot.

> ### Conclusion
> The process of data representation is a delightful journey. Like all journeys, it must come to an end. 
> Through the use of a content delivery network, we were able to import Brython and highchart's Javascript files. This further enabled us to represent data in the form of piechart and scatter plot using Brython.
> [Here](https://github.com/ayodele96/brython) is the link to the repository containing the code snippets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Conclusion
The process of data representation is a delightful journey. Like all journeys, it must come to an end.  Through the use of a Content Delivery Network, we were able to import Brython and Highchart's Javascript files. This further enabled us to represent data in the form of piechart and scatter plot using Brython. To get the Python code used in this tutorial, click [here](https://github.com/ayodele96/brython).
```

> ### Reference
> For more exposure on this topic, go through the [Brython documentation](https://brython.info/static_doc/en/intro.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Further Reading
For further reading on Brython, read this [documentation](https://brython.info/static_doc/en/intro.html).
```

Brython interfaces smoothly with JavaScript and its libraries to build high-level web projects. It incorporates libraries such as Vue.js, Bokeh, Highchart, and Phaser.

In this tutorial, we will represent data utilizing piecharts and scatterplots in Brython. This is possible because of the cooperation among Brython and Highchart.js libraries. Let's get started!
### Prerequisites

To follow along easily, the reader should:

- Install the [Python](https://www.python.org/downloads/) executable.
-  Have [Python programming](/engineering-education/python-projects-for-beginners/) skills.
-  Have [Javascript programming](https://www.w3schools.com/js/) skills.
-  Have [Visual Studio Code.](https://code.visualstudio.com/)

### Aim of this tutorial
In this tutorial, we aim to guide the readers on how to:

- Installing Brython in our local environment. We can achieve this using a host of methods:
    1. PyPI. To use this method make sure you have installed Python3.
    2. Content Delivery Network (CDN).
    3. Node Package Manager (npm).
    4. GitHub.
     
> NOTE: We will focus on the second and third methods in creating a piechart and scatter plot.

> ### Getting started
> 
> #### Installing brython with the node package manager
> Node.js is a JavaScript runtime used for building scalable network applications and executes JavaScript code outside a web browser. 
> To install Brython using npm, [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) must be downloaded and installed. After installation, type the following command on your terminal:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Getting started
To get started, we will Install Brython with the Node Package Manager
#### Installing Brython with the Node Package Manager
Node.js is a JavaScript runtime used to build scalable network applications. It executes JavaScript code outside a web browser. 
To install Brython using `npm`, download and install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/). After installation, run this command in your terminal:
```

```bash
npm install brython
```

> Do this in your preferred directory for your project. You will notice a folder called node_modules, and within it contains the Brython package. 
> Thus, you can add it to your web project using the script tag below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run this command while in your working directory. This will create a folder called node_modules. This folder contains the Brython package.

To add the Brython package to your web project, use the script tag below:
```

> ```HTML

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```html
```

<script type="text/javascript" src="../node_modules/brython/brython.js"></script>
```

> #### Installing brython using content delivery network
> Similar to the use of script tags above, Brython can be delivered directly from the web using CDN. 
> Content delivery networks in JavaScript deliver hosted stylesheets and JavaScript files using the `src` attribute in the script tag. The javascript file for Brython is as below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Installing Brython using Content Delivery Network
Brython can be delivered directly from the web using CDN link. Content Delivery Networks in JavaScript deliver hosted stylesheets and JavaScript files using the `src` attribute in the script tag. The JavaScript file for Brython is as below:
```

> ```JavaScript

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```javascript
```

<script src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/brython/3.10.4/brython.js" 
integrity="sha512-Dr8IR/2fk/pBmngFLduWN5Ys/t7lcPxGgLCulHdTdgDrDRnGb+ANMxGXq+DKVN87jom+N3BrzzI476Pf98RReA==" crossorigin="anonymous" referrerpolicy="no-referrer"></script>
```

> Any of the methods above is acceptable and, you should have your Brython project working as required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use any of the methods above to create your Brython project. After creating the Brython project, we can now create a piechart.
```

#### Create a piechart using Brython.
In this section, we will start by creating a piechart using Brython. To create the piechart, we will follow the following steps:

1. Initializing the HTML5 boilerplate.
To initialize the HTML5 boilerplate, use the following code in VisualStudio Code:

> ```HTML

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```html
```

<html lang="en">
<head>
    <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge">
    <title>Document</title>
</head>
<body>
    
</body>
</html>
```

> - We'll add Jquery just as Highchart's exporting.js CDN to our boilerplate. Also, we'll install the Highcharts module using:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Installing the Highcharts module.
To install the Highcharts module, use this code:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```npm
```

npm install highcharts
```

> Note! If you used the Node package manager, link your script to the exporting.js file in the node_module folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note: If you used the Node Package Manager, make sure you link your script to the `exporting.js` file in the `node_module folder`.
```

The cooperation between JavaScript and the web has been a standard. There are different programming languages used for web development, with a notable mention being Python.  Python has micro-frameworks such as `Flask`, `Hug`, and `Cherrypy` which have enabled Python to cooperate with the web.

Instead of using Python micro-frameworks to run the client-side web applications, we have `Brython`. `Brython` stands for Browser Python. `Brython` is a client-side scripting language with Python3 execution that is adjusted to the HTML5 environment. 

Brython interfaces smoothly with JavaScript and its libraries to build high-level web projects. It incorporates libraries such as Vue.js, Bokeh, Highchart, and Phaser.

In this tutorial, we will represent data utilizing piecharts and scatterplots in Brython. This is possible because of the cooperation among Brython and Highchart.js libraries. Let's get started!

> ### Table of contents
> - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
> - [Aim of this tutorial](#aim-of-this-tutorial)
> - [Getting started](#getting-started)
>   - [Installing Brython with the Node Package Manager](#installing-brython-with-the-node-package-manager)
>   - [Installing Brython using Content Delivery Network](#installing-brython-using-content-delivery-network)
>   - [Create a piechart using Brython.](#create-a-piechart-using-brython)
>     - [Initializing the HTML5 boilerplate.](#initializing-the-html5-boilerplate)
>     - [Installing the Highcharts module.](#installing-the-highcharts-module)
>     - [Adding the `brython.js and brython_stdlib.js` file using our script tag.](#adding-the-brythonjs-and-brython_stdlibjs-file-using-our-script-tag)
>     - [Chart.py file](#chartpy-file)
>   - [Creating a scatterplot using Brython.](#creating-a-scatterplot-using-brython)
> - [Conclusion](#conclusion)
> - [Further Reading](#further-reading)
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Table of contents
- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Aim of this tutorial](#aim-of-this-tutorial)
- [Getting started](#getting-started)
- [Installing Brython with the Node Package Manager](#installing-brython-with-the-node-package-manager)
- [Installing Brython using Content Delivery Network](#installing-brython-using-content-delivery-network)
- [Create a piechart using Brython.](#create-a-piechart-using-brython)
- [Initializing the HTML5 boilerplate.](#initializing-the-html5-boilerplate)
- [Installing the Highcharts module.](#installing-the-highcharts-module)
- [Adding the `brython.js and brython_stdlib.js` file using our script tag.](#adding-the-brythonjs-and-brython_stdlibjs-file-using-our-script-tag)
- [Chart.py file](#chartpy-file)
- [Creating a scatterplot using Brython.](#creating-a-scatterplot-using-brython)
- [Conclusion](#conclusion)
- [Further Reading](#further-reading)

```

### Prerequisites

To follow along easily, the reader should:

- Install the [Python](https://www.python.org/downloads/) executable.
- Have [Python programming](/engineering-education/python-projects-for-beginners/) skills.
- Have [Javascript programming](https://www.w3schools.com/js/) skills.
- Have [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) installed.

> ### Aim of this tutorial
> In this tutorial, we aim to guide the readers on how to:
> 
> - Installing Brython in our local environment. We can achieve this using a host of methods:
>   - PyPI. To use this method make sure you have installed Python3.
>   - Content Delivery Network (CDN).
>   - Node Package Manager (npm).
>   - GitHub.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Aim of this tutorial
In this tutorial, we aim to guide the readers on how to:

- Install Brython in our local environment. We can achieve this using a host of methods:
1. PyPI. To use this method make sure you have installed Python3.
2. Content Delivery Network (CDN).
3. Node Package Manager (npm).
4. GitHub.
```

```

You can use any of the methods above to create your Brython project. After creating the Brython project, we can now create a piechart.

#### Create a piechart using Brython.
In this section, we will start by creating a piechart using Brython. To create the piechart, we will follow the following steps:

##### Initializing the HTML5 boilerplate.
To initialize the HTML5 boilerplate, use the following code in VisualStudio Code:

```html
<html lang="en">
<head>
    <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge">
    <title>Document</title>
</head>
<body>
    
</body>
</html>
```

##### Installing the Highcharts module.
To install the Highcharts module, use this code:

```npm
npm install highcharts
```

> Note: If you used the Node Package Manager, make sure you link your script to the `exporting.js` file in the `node_module folder`.

To link your script to the `exporting.js` file in the `node_module folder`, use this code:

```html
<!-- jquery -->
<script type="text/javascript" src="http://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/1.8.2/jquery.min.js"></script>
<!-- exporting.js -->
<script src="exporting.js"></script>
```

> #####  Adding the `brython.js and brython_stdlib.js` file using our script tag. 
> 
> First, we will create a file named `chart.py.`  We then import these files into our HTML file using the script tag and set the type to `"text/python3"`.
> 
> - In the body section,  add the `onload` attribute `brython(1)`. It prints error messages on the browser's console. Within the body tag,  add a div tag with id `container`, the div has the inline styling below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#####  Adding the `brython.js and brython_stdlib.js` file using our script tag. 
First, we will create a file named `chart.py.`  We then import these files into our HTML file using the script tag and set the type to `"text/python3"`.

In the body section,  add the `onload` attribute `brython(1)`. It will print error messages on the browser's console. Within the `body` tag,  add a `div` tag with id `container`, the div has the inline styling below:
```

```css
#container{
    min-width: 310px; 
    height: 400px; 
    margin: 0 auto
}
```

The `html` code is shown below:

```html
<html>
    <head>
        <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8">
        <title>Piechart</title>

        <script type="text/javascript" src="http://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/1.8.2/jquery.min.js"></script>

        <script src="./node_modules/highcharts/highcharts.js"></script>
        <script src="exporting.js"></script>

        <script type="text/javascript" src="./node_modules/brython/brython.js"></script>
        <script src="./node_modules/brython/brython_stdlib.js"></script>
        <script type="text/python3" src="chart.py"></script>

    </head>
    <body onload="brython(1)">

        <div id="container" style="min-width: 310px; height: 400px; margin: 0 auto"></div>

    </body>
</html>
```

> 

Reviewer: Format this code snippet correctly by removing the unnecessary white spaces in the code.

            "plotBackgroundColor": "#FCFFC5",
            "plotBorderWidth": None,
            "plotShadow": False,
            "renderTo": "container",
        },
        "title": {"text": "Religious Distribution in Nigeria"},
        "tooltip": {"pointFormat": "<b>{point.percentage:.1f}%</b>"},
        "plotOptions": {
            "pie": {
                "allowPointSelect": True,
                "cursor": "pointer",
                "dataLabels": {
                    "enabled": True,
                    "format": "<b>{point.name}</b>: {point.percentage:.1f} %",
                    "style": {"color": "black"},
                },
            }
        },
        "series": [
            {
                "type": "pie",
                "data": [
                    ["Indigenious Beliefs", 10.7],
                    ["Other Christian", 35.3],
                    {
                        "name": "Roman Catholicism",
                        "y": 10.0,
                        "sliced": True,
                        "selected": True,
                    },
                    ["Islam", 43.5],
                    ["Others", 0.5],
                ],
            }
        ],
    }
)
```

> 

Reviewer: You can also do a little better and format this code snippet correctly.

> The code above is used to plot the pie chart using the following methods:
> - **`plotBackgroundColor`** 
>   It is used to plot the background color for the chart area.
> 
> - **`plotBorderWidth`** 
>   This is used to plot the width of the chart area in pixels.
> 
> - **`plotShadow`**  
>   This method takes in boolean values. It adds a drop shadow to the area. 
> 
> - **`renderTo`**
>   This method is similar to `document.getElementBy` in javascript. It will take the `id` of the `div` tag in our HTML code.
> 
> - **`tooltip`**
>   This object contains the details in the small box when we hover on our chart.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The code above is used to plot the pie chart using the following methods:
- `plotBackgroundColor`
It is used to plot the background color for the chart area.

- `plotBorderWidth`
It is used to plot the width of the chart area in pixels.

- `plotShadow`
This method takes in boolean values. It adds a drop shadow to the area. 

- `renderTo`
This method is similar to `document.getElementBy` in javascript. It will take the `id` of the `div` tag in our HTML code.

- `tooltip`
This object contains the details in the small box when we hover on our chart.

```

                    [108, 143],
                    [109, 92],
                    [108, 158],
                    [110, 102],
                    [79, 149],
                    [92, 141],
                    [86, 190],
                    [71, 99],
                    [129, 108],
                    [123, 116],
                    [89, 86],
                    [132, 181],
                    [137, 190],
                    [132, 143],
                ],
            },
            {
                "name": "Hispanic",
                "color": "green",
                "data": [
                    [156, 177],
                    [177, 83],
                    [180, 145],
                    [122, 106],
                    [100, 147],
                    [155, 72],
                    [85, 81],
                    [90, 122],
                    [107, 161],
                    [73, 168],
                    [100, 104],
                    [117, 82],
                    [153, 71],
                    [88, 74],
                    [171, 117],
                    [83, 185],
                    [125, 136],
                ],
            },
        ],
    }
)

> ```

Reviewer: Also here you can remove unnecessary white spaces in the code.

The code above shows the relation between weight and height using a sample of 53 individuals of different races.

When we execute this code, the scatterplot is as shown below:

![scatterplot](engineering-education/data-representation-with-react-and-ant-design/scatterplot.png)

The code above plots the scatterplot using the `chart` object.  The `chart` object has the following methods that specify the behavior of our scatter plot.

> - **`type`**
>   This method is used to specify the chart type.
> 
> - **`zoomType`**
>   This method specifies the zoom dimension when we move the mouse.
>  
> - **`tooltip`** 
>   This is a small modal that pops up when we hover our mouse on the datasets in the plot.  It displays all details added to the scatter plot.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `type`
This method is used to specify the chart type.

- `zoomType`
This method specifies the zoom dimension when we move the mouse.
 
- `tooltip`
This is a small modal that pops up when we hover our mouse on the datasets in the plot.  It displays all details added to the scatter plot.

```
